---
title: The Philosophy of Tent
kind: article
created_at: January 1, 2013 12:30 EDT
---

While it can be used in many ways, Tent was designed with a specific set of
patterns and structures in mind. Understanding this design philosophy can help
developers take advantage of the strengths of the protocol and improve the
experience of users.

### Users First

Users should remain in control and possession of their data at all times. They
control which other entities and applications have access to their posts and
profile, should have complete visibility into what posts have been accessed, and
should be able to revoke or change access controls at any time.

### Decentralization

Tent, like email and the web, is decentralized. Anyone can run their own Tent
server and each user is responsible for her own server.

Since Tent is a protocol and services are decentralized, users have a choice of
hosting providers. Like email, anyone can run their own server or choose
a service provider. The open nature of Tent ensures a choice of vendors.

If another server goes offline, your Tent server is unaffected. This ensures
that no single outage will stop other Tent users from communicating.
Decentralization also makes Tent resistant to censorship. Not only is there no
single server or address to block, but Tent servers can be run as Tor hidden
services, making them very difficult to track and shut down. Tent also would
survive the termination of a region's external internet connection if internal
services continued to operate.

### Data Structures

In Tent nearly everything is represented as a series of posts. Even social graph
events are persisted and communicated as posts. The evented nature of Tent makes
it possible to reconstruct past events by reviewing a user's post history.

Application data is also intended to be saved in posts on the user's Tent
server. Other applications can access the same data by reading and modifying the
posts in which it is stored. This prevents application-lock in and lets users
choose the right app for a specific action. For example, a photo managment app
saves every image as a post. The same user's image filter/manipulation app has
access to all of her photos, removing the need for her to upload them twice.
Different applications create data that can be valuable to each other. When
possible, apps should use standard post types to facilitate this process.

All data should be saved to the user's Tent server. Apps can keep a local cache
for offline use or to speed the launch process, but all critical data should
live primarily on the server. Devices can be lost, stolen, or wiped. When this
occurs Tent servers can revoke an application's access credentials on
a specific devices. Users benefit from the peace of mind that comes from
knowing that all their data is stored safely in one place that they contol.

Tent servers try to save all of the posts and profile info they encounter.
Applications should not need to contact other servers directly: all requests
should be sent through the user's Tent server.

### Everything in One Place

Tent is the one place where all of a user's data is stored. Public and private,
published and personal, media and transactional information, human and computer
readable, all should be in this single data store.

While Tent can be used for "decentralized social networking", in the future the
vast majority of Tent posts will likely be private. Most posts and profile info
will be programatically generated with content generated by humans representing
a minority of content on any individual Tent server. Because of the variety of
apps and post types, users should not be thought of as having a single feed.
Most posts are used by different apps and servers to communicate and store data
and will not be particularly meaningful or useful to humans readers directly.

Many types of applications will contribute to and read from a user's Tent
server. These include stand alone user interfaces for a specific post type, like
statuses or photos. The same post type can be viewed in many different ways and
deliver different value for different users in different circumstances. For
example Tweetie and TweetDeck both create and consume a single API but provide
very different value and experiences to different users in different situations.
Other apps may work in the background, regularly logging certain actions or
behaviors, like the user's location or financial transactions. These apps will
often be augmented by another class of apps that watch for certain post types
and modify them when encountered. These apps can modify or append assets. For
example one app might create a post for every event scheduled on a user's
calendar and another app could append the forecasted weather for that time and
location. Other apps can bridge Tent and another protocol like SMTP or RSS by
creating a Tent post for each incoming event/message or sending a message or
publishing a feed when certain post types are detected on the server.

### Publishing

Tent considers users' privacy and security to be of paramount importance. Tent
keeps private information private and makes public broadcasts difficult to
censor or hide.

Tent tries to reduce the chance that **public** posts can be purged from the
internet. Tent publishes content by sending posts to followers in real time.
Usually a complete copy of the post is sent out to all followers immediately
after being created. This means that the publisher's Tent server could be taken
offline and those copies of the post would remain on her follower's servers.

This design choice is intentional. Posts shared with the world using Tent are
very difficult to rescind. When a jornalist, activist, or dissident publishes an
article, photo, video, event, or cry for help, that message will remain
accessible to recipients even if the sender's server goes offline or is
destroyed.

Similarly the design of Tent alows users to completely control which (if any)
users, applications, and service providers have access to their private posts.
Users can self-host their Tent servers or choose hosting providers based on
their trustworthiness alone. This means that all sensitive private data on their
Tent server is accessible only to the user herself and (in some cases) her
chosen hosting provider. Applications should also employ client-side encryption
where possible and Tent servers should always connect over TLS. Future versions
of the Tent protocol will also include end-to-end encryption.

The balance between privacy and publishing is delicate and requires individual
users to be mindful of their decision when chosing hosts and setting permissions
on posts. Developers also must consider how privacy settings are handled in an
app's UI.

Future posts on this site will discuss the Tent privacy and encryption models
and design considerations in greater detail.
